[** 1 query/correction marked]



                           The Gold Standard.


            HOW IT CAME INTO THE WORLD AND WHY IT WILL STAY.
                A HISTORICAL SKETCH WITH SOME PRACTICAL
                          REFLECTIONS THEREON.

             _AN ADDRESS BEFORE THE CONGRESS OF BANKERS AND
                 FINANCIERS AT CHICAGO, JUNE 20, 1893._

                                   BY
                             HORACE WHITE.

                    The Evening Post Publishing Co.,

                             NEW YORK CITY.




  _Copies of this pamphlet may be obtained at 5 cents a copy, postpaid._
             _Address_ THE EVENING POST PUBLISHING COMPANY,
                   _206–210 Broadway, New York City_.




                           THE GOLD STANDARD.


The most impressive fact in the world of finance is the dominance of
the gold standard. A year or two ago Roumania passed under its sway,
to-day it is Austria, next year or soon it will be India, by and by it
will be Russia, and meanwhile it has lost no ground that it has ever
held. Three international conferences have been assembled to stay this
conquering march, while none has been called to promote or assist it.
Yet the movement has been as little impeded as that of an ocean steamer
would be by the action of a debating society in its own cabin. Is all
this due to human perversity, or has it a rational cause founded in the
needs of mankind?


                       THE EXPERIENCE OF ENGLAND.

The first nation to adopt the single gold standard by law was England.
This was really done in 1798, although the date usually assigned to it
is 1816.

The pound sterling was originally a pound weight of silver, divided
into twenty parts called shillings, and each of these into twelve parts
called pennies, or pennyweights. Gold made its first appearance in the
coinage of England in the reign of Edward III. (A. D. 1345). The ratio
of gold to silver fixed by royal decree in this coinage was about 12½
to 1.

From this period to the forty-third year of the reign of Elizabeth
there were nine debasements of the silver coinage accompanied by
changes in the gold coinage, but as these were arbitrary acts of
the reigning sovereigns they possess no scientific interest. In the
forty-third of Elizabeth (1601) the last debasement was made. The
pound weight of silver was then coined into sixty-two shillings, and
the pound of gold into thirty-three and one-half sovereigns of seven
pennyweights and four grains each, the ratio of gold to silver being
11 to 1. The silver coinage being henceforth unchanged, it becomes
possible to trace the commercial variations of the two metals and to
observe the ineffectual struggles of society and government to keep
both of them in use as legal-tender money.

Queen Elizabeth died two years later. Before her successor, James I.,
had been on the throne three years, gold had risen in value as compared
with silver, and the gold coins were exported to such an extent that it
was necessary to diminish their weight about 11 per cent. The ratio now
established was a little more than 12 to 1.

In the ninth year of the same reign the gold coin began to be exported
again, so that it was necessary to make a new change of ratio. This
time the ratio was fixed at 13 to 1. But this was too great an advance
in the rating of gold. An exportation of silver set in which caused
great inconvenience in the kingdom. Instead of readjusting the ratio
the King, in the year 1614, issued a proclamation prohibiting the
exportation of the precious metals. The proclamation had no effect. So
another one was issued in 1618 reaffirming the first one and forbidding
the melting of coin for the purpose of making plate, although a certain
amount might be used for repairing old plate and keeping it up to its
original standard. As the evil continued a third proclamation was
issued in 1622 and a fourth in 1624. None of these had any effect
except to make an historical record of the futility of attempts to
enforce a legal ratio which is different even in a slight degree from
the market ratio. It was customary during this period to pay a premium
of two pence for silver change to the amount of 20 shillings.

Soon after Charles I. began his reign he issued a proclamation on
the same subject, reciting the previous ones of his father and
acknowledging that they had been disregarded. In 1636 seven persons
accused of melting and exporting coin were arrested and fined £8,500
and imprisoned till the fines were paid, but even this example did not
put a stop to the practice. Silver was worth two or three pence per
ounce more than the mint valuation, and this fact dominated society
from the King on the throne to the beggar on the dunghill. But what
could not be prevented by royal proclamation and star chamber was
stopped by an unseen force. The price of gold was slowly rising, so
that about the beginning of the Commonwealth the ratio that King James
had established was identical, or nearly so, with the market ratio. The
exportation of the precious metals ceased until the reign of Charles II.

In 1663 gold had risen in value so that it was necessary to change the
ratio to 14½ to 1. This was an advance of about 8 per cent. since James
I.

Each time that a change was made in the gold coinage a new name was
given to the coin so produced, in order to distinguish it from its
predecessors. The coin that Charles II. now introduced was called the
guinea. It was ordered that this coin should pass for twenty shillings,
but it immediately became current in trade at a higher rate, passing
for twenty-one to twenty-two shillings. No attempt was made to enforce
the mint valuation or to prevent melting or exporting. Consequently
silver became in practice the only legal-tender money. Nobody would
offer a guinea to pay a debt of 20 shillings when it was worth 21
shillings. The guineas passed for what they were worth as bullion. That
was a time when the clipping of coin was much practiced, but it was no
advantage to clip a gold coin, since it was taken only at its bullion
value. The silver coins, however, passed by tale. Consequently they
alone were subjected to the clipping process. The evil became so great
that a recoinage of silver was necessary and was undertaken in the
reign of William III. This was a celebrated event in many ways. Both
Sir Isaac Newton and John Locke were concerned in it. In the year 1717
the guinea was made current by royal proclamation at 21 shillings in
silver, at which figure the ratio was about 15⅐ to 1. This was in the
third year of the reign of George I.

It was about this time, says Lord Liverpool, that a marked preference
was shown by the people for gold money rather than silver, on account
of its convenience in making large payments. This he ascribes to the
increase in the commerce of the country. As gold was slightly overrated
at the ratio of 15⅐ to 1, there was a tendency to export silver. Only
£584,000 of the latter metal was brought to the mint for a period of
eighty-three years down to the end of the century, and most of this
came from Spanish treasure ships captured in war. The only silver coin
retained in circulation was that which had been much worn. As these
light-weight pieces varied among themselves, the lightest ones were
selected to make payments, a condition which became worse and worse
until Parliament in 1774 passed an act limiting the legal tender of
silver coins to £25 in tale. For any sum above £25 they could be paid
by weight only. This act was to continue in force only two years, the
expectation being that some other remedy for the evil would shortly
be found. It was re-enacted from time to time till 1798, when another
clause was added providing that no more silver should be coined at the
mint, nor should any be delivered that had been coined, but that the
owners of such silver should be paid for it. In the following year
(1799) a brief act was passed making the act of 1774 perpetual. In
1816 the character of the British monetary system was formulated by an
act of Parliament on its present basis, the essential part of this act
being in the following words:

  “XI. And whereas at various times heretofore the coins of this realm
  of gold and silver have been equally a legal tender for payments
  to any amount, and _great inconvenience has arisen from both those
  precious metals being concurrently the standard measure of value and
  equivalent for property_; and it is expedient that the gold coin made
  according to the indentures of the Mint should henceforth be the
  sole standard measure of value and legal tender for payment, without
  any limitation of amount, and that the silver coin should be a legal
  tender to a limited amount only, for the facility of exchange and
  commerce;

  “Be it therefore enacted, That from and after the passing of this
  act, the gold coin of this realm shall be and shall be considered and
  is hereby declared to be the only legal tender for payments, except
  as hereinafter provided, * * * and no tender of payment of money
  made in the silver coin of this realm of any sum exceeding the sum
  of forty shillings at any one time shall be reputed a tender in law,
  etc.”

This is a brief résumé of the experience and legislation of Great
Britain. It is important as showing that the single gold standard was
adopted on account of the “great inconvenience” of the double standard,
which had been in vogue previously. Of course, this “inconvenience”
had attracted the attention of learned men before 1798. John Locke had
shown that a double standard composed of two things of varying value
was an impossibility. He favored the single standard of silver, as did
the learned men who considered the same question in France a century
later.

It appears that the gold standard was adopted without any particular
design on the part of those who brought it about. They found, as a
matter of fact, that the monetary evils existing in 1774 could be cured
most readily by limiting the legal tender of silver. So they did it
for two years, and then for two years more, and so on, till 1798–99,
when they had become satisfied by the experience of twenty-five years
that the single gold standard was the right thing to put an end to the
“inconvenience.” Seventeen years later, the experiment having continued
to be successful, they passed the law which I have quoted. That law,
in substance, remains in force to the present time, and we may be sure
that it would not have lasted so long if it were not a good thing _per
se_.


                THE GOLD STANDARD IN THE UNITED STATES.

We will next consider the experience of the United States. At the
beginning of our career as a nation we adopted the double standard
of gold and silver. This was in 1792. Our statesmen followed in this
matter the example of the older countries of Europe. Alexander
Hamilton was the Secretary of the Treasury and the ruling spirit. At
his instance the ratio of 15 was adopted, and there is no room to
doubt that this was very close to the true market ratio at the time.
The English ratio of 15⅐ ceased to be operative, as we have seen,
because it was too high. France was at that time under the régime of
irredeemable paper. Consequently nothing could be learned from her. The
discussions and writings of the period show that there was an honest
and earnest effort to adopt the market ratio as the legal ratio, and
that the result reached was as nearly true as possible. Nevertheless,
gold began to grow scarce in our circulation as early as 1810, and had
wholly disappeared in 1817. One ounce of gold had come to be worth
as metal something more than fifteen ounces of silver. It was worth
while for bullion brokers to collect gold coins and export them. The
testimony is emphatic and is not disputed, that after 1817 and until
1834 our metallic money consisted of silver exclusively.


                            THE LAW OF 1834.

In 1834 people had become tired of lugging silver around. They had by
this time found out what was the matter. They determined to have some
gold in their pockets, but it cannot be affirmed that Congress had
reached a scientific conclusion in favor of the single gold standard.
What is certain is that Congress adopted the ratio of 16 to 1 in 1834
by very large majorities in spite of proofs urgently presented that
this ratio would drive silver out of circulation altogether, as it did.
This bill was called the “Gold Bill” in the discussions of the time.
As reported by the special committee, it provided for a ratio of 15.60
to 1, but when it came up for discussion, Mr. Campbell P. White, the
Chairman of the Committee, who was himself in favor of the single gold
standard, moved to amend by making the ratio 16 to 1, and his amendment
was adopted without a division. On the main question the debate was
long and animated. An amendment to the amendment was offered, making
the ratio 15.625 to 1, and it was supported on the ground that this was
the true market ratio, and that it would enable the country to keep
both silver and gold in concurrent circulation. This amendment was
voted down--yeas 52, nays 127. The bill was then passed in the House by
145 to 36, and in the Senate by 35 to 7.

There was a variety of motives leading to the passage of the Gold Bill,
but among these the desire of having gold in place of silver was the
most influential. Thomas H. Benton, one of the strongest advocates of
the measure, declared that the object of his endeavors was:

  “To enable the friends of gold to go to work at the right place to
  effect the recovery of that precious metal which their fathers once
  possessed, which the subjects of European kings now possess, which
  the citizens of the young republics to the south all possess, which
  even the free negroes of San Domingo possess, but [** of] which the yeomanry
  of this America have been deprived for more than twenty years, and
  will be deprived forever unless they discover the cause of the evil
  and apply the remedy to its root.--[Speech of Senator Benton of
  Missouri, quoted by Louis R. Ehrich in his ‘Question of Silver.’]”

The effect that was predicted was abundantly realized. Silver did go
out of circulation. The minor coins, being of proportional weight and
fineness with the dollar, were melted and exported, and their place in
the circulation was taken by light-weight foreign coins, principally
Spanish and Mexican six-pences, shillings, quarters, and halves.
Those coins, when of full weight, were almost identical with our own
fractional coins. If our own would not circulate the foreign ones
of course would not. But if there was a certain proportion of these
coins, whether foreign or domestic, that had been worn down by long use
so that they really represented the market ratio or something less,
such coins would circulate concurrently with gold. To illustrate: two
halves, four quarters, or ten dimes, if new and of full weight, were
worth about one cent and a half more than a gold dollar. Consequently
they would be collected by brokers, melted and exported. But two
halves, four quarters, or ten dimes, that had lost one and a half
cents’ worth of silver by abrasion, would circulate, because there
would be no motive to melt or export them. There would be no profit
in it. When I was a boy the silver money of this country consisted
exclusively of foreign coins, mostly Spanish and Mexican, but with a
considerable sprinkling of English, French, German and Scandinavian
pieces. Every merchant kept a coin chart manual for handy reference to
determine the value of these pieces as they were offered in trade. I
have also seen Spanish quarters cut in half, each piece circulating as
a shilling. There was nothing remarkable about this, since all these
foreign coins were circulating at their bullion value. The two halves
of a Spanish quarter were therefore worth as much as they would have
been if joined in a single piece.

It became apparent to everybody that if full-weight silver coins would
not circulate on the ratio of 16 to 1, while those of light weight
would circulate, then it would be safe to _make_ minor coins (halves,
quarters, etc.), designedly of light weight on Government account, of
limited legal tender. There would be no profit in exporting such coins,
because they would not sell as bullion for as much as it would cost to
collect them. In 1853 an act of this kind was passed.

From 1837 onward the country had gold money and the gold basis. Silver
dollars were hardly ever seen. There was not an hour in the whole
period of forty years to 1873 when the silver dollar was not worth more
than the gold dollar. With the exception of a very few years it was
worth fully three cents more. Did any of you ever see a silver dollar
in circulation prior to 1878? I never did.


                            THE LAW OF 1873.

Under these circumstances, the gold standard existing _de facto_, and
there being no silver except light-weight subsidiary coins, our mint
authorities, the only people who took any interest in the subject,
began even before the war to recommend that the single gold standard
should be adopted in law as it had been adopted in fact. Ex-Gov.
Pollock, Director of the Mint, in his report for 1861 called attention
to the incongruity of a silver dollar that was worth 3.10 cents more
than the gold dollar and 8 cents more than two half dollars. He
recommended that it should either be dropped from the list of coins
or reduced in weight so as to correspond with the subsidiary coins.
He considered that gold was _de facto_ the standard of value, and he
recommended that the law should conform to the fact. But the nation
had more exciting topics to discuss in 1861 than those relating to
coinage. In 1866, after the war, Mr. John J. Knox, who then had
charge of the Mint and coinage matters in the Treasury Department,
recommended a revision of all the laws relating to the Mint. Secretary
Boutwell approved of the suggestion. Mr. Knox and Dr. Linderman were
appointed in 1869 a committee to make such revision. They presented
their report with a draft of a bill in 1870. The report recommended the
discontinuance of the silver dollar, this coin being obsolete.

The bill and report were transmitted to the Finance Committee of the
Senate on the 25th of April, 1870. The bill passed the Senate on the
10th of January, 1871. It made the gold dollar the unit of value and
it dropped the silver dollar from the list of coins. The bill failed
in the House for want of time. The Forty-first Congress having expired
without final action it came up again in the Forty-second. It passed
the House May 27, 1872, by yeas 110, nays 13. It passed the Senate
January 17, 1873, without a dissenting vote. The metal in the silver
dollar at that time was worth two cents more than the gold dollar. No
objection to the bill was heard until the price of silver had fallen so
that the silver dollar, if there had been any, would have been worth
less than the gold dollar. Then it became fashionable to say that
the bill was passed surreptitiously. The truth is, that the bill was
before Congress two years and ten months, that it was printed thirteen
times by order of Congress, that the debates on it occupy sixty-six
columns in the Senate proceedings, and seventy-eight columns in the
House proceedings, and that the discontinuance of the silver dollar
was specially discussed in the House. Any candid person must see that
the reason why the discontinuance of the silver dollar attracted so
little notice was that this coin had been discontinued _de facto_ in
1834, when the ratio of 16 to 1 was adopted. I have given reasons for
thinking that this ratio was adopted designedly to expel the silver
dollar from circulation. At all events, it did so, to the satisfaction
of the people. It is a great pity that our ancestors in 1834 did not
put their intentions into the form of law at that time. If they had
done so they would have spared us a Pandora’s box, to be opened forty
years later.

Bimetallism was abolished in the United States by the Act of 1873.
It has not been re-established by any subsequent act. The purchase
and coinage of a limited amount of silver by the Government is not
bimetallism. Still less so is the purchase of bullion which is not
coined. Any other metal would answer as well as silver as a backing for
the issue of Treasury notes. Let us imagine for a moment that silver
had not fallen in price after 1873. Would anybody ever have missed the
silver dollar? Would anybody have doubted that the gold standard was
brought about in this country by natural causes operating upon men’s
minds in the same way as it was in England, the action of Congress in
1873 merely giving the form of law to what had been done practically at
an earlier period?


                       THE EXPERIENCE OF GERMANY.

Prior to 1871 Germany had the single silver standard, but as she could
not transact business with silver alone, she used for her international
and wholesale trade a heterogeneous assortment of gold coins, partly
domestic and partly foreign, including napoleons, pistoles, guineas,
eagles, Russian imperials, Friedrichs d’or, ducats, crowns, &c.,
passing as commercial money. The question of a reform of the currency
had been under discussion by the economists and publicists of Germany
for nearly ten years, but until 1868 the question under debate was a
question of _uniformity_ of money rather than of the metallic standard.
Dr. Soëtbeer had indeed published two articles in 1863 and 1864 in
the _Vierteljahrschrift für Volkswirthschaft_ on the gold standard,
but it was not until after the Paris Monetary Conference of 1867
that the commercial classes began to take an active interest in the
question. This Conference was held, at the invitation of the French
Government, to consider the question of uniformity of coinage. Nearly
all the governments of Europe were represented. The United States were
represented also. One of the earliest questions to be decided was that
of a standard. The first vote was on the question of adopting the
single standard of silver. This was rejected unanimously. Then the
single standard of gold was adopted with only one dissenting vote--that
of Holland. Nobody proposed bimetallism. The action of this Conference
shows that even at a time when the two metals were at an equilibrium
according to the French ratio, France and all her allies of the Latin
Union were inclined to adopt the single gold standard, and also that
Germany, Austria, Russia and the Scandinavian countries, all of which
at the time had the single silver standard, were of the same mind.

After this event a great many publications appeared in Germany showing
an unmistakable tendency in the public mind to the gold standard. The
most important of these is the report which Soëtbeer made at the Ninth
Congress of German Economists in the year 1868. This Congress met in
Hamburg and pronounced in favor of the unification of German money, and
of the gold standard. Its action was ratified soon afterward by the
united commercial bodies of the North German Confederation, and would
have been carried into effect at once but for the war with France. This
event postponed the reform one year.


                      GERMAN MONETARY LAW OF 1871.

On the 5th of November, 1871, the Finance Minister of the new German
Empire, Herr Delbrück, presented to the Imperial Diet a brief report
of the “motives” which had led the Government to propose a measure for
the unification of the German coinage. This measure provided for the
coinage of gold pieces of ten and twenty marks, and it discontinued
the coinage of large silver coins, but did not demonetize those that
were in circulation. The report says, first of all, that it may be
considered as beyond doubt that the existing silver standard cannot
be maintained. The only gold coins authorized by existing law were
German crowns and half-crowns, but these had no fixed relation to the
standard silver coins of the nation nor to those of any other country.
Consequently they were not accepted in the domestic circulation. They
had never been an integral part of it, nor had they acquired any
standing in international commerce, being melted down as soon as they
reached the frontier. Consequently the internal commerce of Germany
was confined to the use of bulky and inconvenient silver coins. “The
inconvenience of silver coins,” says the report, “led of necessity to
a very considerable circulation of paper, which, in ordinary times,
is taken as a welcome facility, but in critical times contains the
germs of serious dangers. The artificial demand for paper created by
the exclusive circulation of silver made it almost impossible to adopt
any radical and rational regulation of the banking system through laws
common to all Germany.” For these reasons--namely, that silver was
bulky and inconvenient, and that it brought about a forced circulation
of paper and prevented any wise regulation of bank issues--the single
gold standard was recommended, with a silver subsidiary coinage. The
measure was supported by very strong speeches by Minister Delbrück and
by Dr. Bamberger, and it passed on the 23d of November. This measure
was provisional only, a second and more detailed one being enacted two
years later.

It is said by some that Germany, by demonetizing silver in 1871 and by
selling it in 1873 and later, drove France and the Latin Union into a
suspension of silver coinage, and caused the great decline in the price
of that metal. If this were true it might possess an academic, but
hardly a practical interest. Germany is not answerable to us for her
tastes. We cannot call her people to account for liking to have gold in
their pockets or sauerkraut on their tables. We cannot go back to 1871
or blot out the intervening years. Nor have we been able to persuade
Germany that she has made any mistake in her new monetary system. She
declined to take part in the Monetary Conference of 1878. She came with
reluctance to that of 1881, and announced at the outset that she could
not join in any movement for the free coinage of silver. She repeated
this declaration at an early stage of the recent Brussels Conference.
So I feel warranted in saying that the question whether Germany has
been guilty above others in oppressing or depressing silver is of no
practical consequence.

But such a charge cannot be sustained. Germany had completed her new
monetary system and stopped selling silver in 1879, and the Latin
Union countries had closed their mints to silver three years earlier,
whereas silver continued to decline all the same. The London price for
1879 (average) was 51¼d. per ounce. It is now 38d. The decline has been
greater since Germany stopped selling than it was before. From 1871 to
1879 the aggregate decline was 9d.; from 1879 to 1893 it has been 13d.

The simple truth is that Germany was driven to the gold standard, just
as Great Britain and the United States had been previously, by the
_inconveniencies_ of silver money. These inconveniencies manifested
themselves with some variations of detail in different countries, but
all grew out of the ponderousness of silver, an evil which increased
with the growth of commerce. Some persons habitually speak of silver as
a twin sister to whom some grievous injustice has been done. All such
must admit that she is a very corpulent one.


                     FRANCE BEFORE THE REVOLUTION.

We will now look at the course of events in France. Here the livre was
originally a pound weight of silver. It was debased by royal authority
from time to time, as in England, but much more rapidly. M. Béranger,
in his report on the French monetary system in 1802, says that the
ratio of gold to silver was changed twenty-six times between 1602 and
1773, and that the livre at the time when he wrote had been reduced to
the seventy-sixth part of its original weight. The livre is now called
the franc. It is impossible to trace any scientific connection between
these recoinages and the metal ratios except that the divergencies
between the legal and market ratios, whenever they were discovered,
were seized upon by the Government as an excuse for further debasement.
They “fell back alternately from gold to silver and from silver to
gold,” says Béranger, making a profit to the royal treasury each time.
M. Calonne, Comptroller-General under Louis XVI., has given us a list
of the principal recoinages prior to his time, of which there were four
in the reign of Louis XIV. and five in that of Louis XV.

It would be a waste of time to recount them. The ratio existing when
Louis XVI. came to the throne was 14⅝ to 1. It had been adopted in
1726. The legal ratio in England at that time, as we have seen, was
15⅐. Both ratios were, or gradually became, divergent from the market
ratio. Silver was exported from England and gold was exported from
France. A recoinage in the latter country became necessary, and this
was undertaken and executed by Calonne in good faith in the year 1785.
Calonne chose the ratio of 15½. This ratio was in force when the
celebrated law of 1803 was passed, under the Consulate. It was not
exactly conformable to the market ratio at the time. It rated gold
too highly, but Calonne said that he had observed that gold had an
advancing tendency, and he believed that if 15½ was not the true ratio
then, it would become so before long. In this he was right, for when
the law of 1803 was passed, there was no observable tendency to export
either metal, and the Hamburg market ratio, as tabulated by Soëtbeer,
was very close to 15½.


                      FRENCH MONETARY LAW OF 1803.

I have in another place made a study of the documents and debates
which preceded and led up to the French Monetary Law of 1803 (see
_Political Science Quarterly_, June, 1891). The substance is that these
learned and patriotic men, without exception, considered a double
standard impossible and any attempt to establish it disastrous.
They accordingly determined to establish, and thought that they had
established, the single silver standard by a law, the first paragraph
of which reads as follows:

  “General provision.--Five grams of silver, nine-tenths fine,
  constitute the monetary unit which retains the name of franc.”

But they were confronted by the fact that gold was an indispensable
part of the monetary system. How to retain it in the circulation as a
subordinate metal while making silver the sole standard was the great
puzzle of the day. No less than eight important papers were drawn up
from time to time on this question, and no decision was ever reached
except to allow gold to be coined at the French mint at the ratio
of 15½ to 1, with the understanding that if the market ratio should
change, the gold, but not the silver, should be recoined.

Such was the law of 1803. Although it was the intention of the
lawmakers to establish the single silver standard, the clause which
they introduced allowing the coinage of gold was the same thing in
effect as re-enacting Calonne’s law of 1785. It was in practice, though
not in intention, a bimetallic law at the ratio of 15½ to 1.

Almost immediately after its enactment France plunged into wars which
lasted till 1815. Of course, the nation had very little time to
think about her coinage laws. Gradually the price of gold rose above
the legal ratio, and that metal was exported to such an extent that
Chevalier tells us that “twenty-five years after that date [1803] the
circulation consisted of silver only.” Abundant proofs can be adduced
showing that bimetallism did not exist in practice in France between
1820 and 1847. Mr. Griffen has published a table showing the premium on
gold in Paris during every month of that period. This premium was at
times as high as two per cent. The contention of the bimetallists that
the French law of 1803 kept the ratio steady at 15½ till 1873 is not
supported by facts.


                       THE GREAT INRUSH OF GOLD.

From 1850 to 1860 there was an enormous increase in the production of
gold in Russia, California and Australia, and scarcely any increase
in that of silver. The market ratio declined to 15.46 in the year
1851, so, of course, gold could again circulate in France. The ratio
continued to decline till 1859, when it reached its lowest point,
viz., 15.19. It remained below 15½ till 1867. During this interval of
sixteen years France imported $600,000,000 of gold and exported about
half that amount of silver. Her circulation became saturated with the
yellow metal to the great delight of her people, who had become tired
of carrying sacks of five-franc pieces to and fro in cabs and handcarts.

The exportation of silver from France was so extensive at this time
that the country was almost denuded of small money. It became necessary
to coin gold pieces as small as five francs. In 1857 the scarcity of
silver became so great that the Government appointed a commission to
investigate the subject. This commission was bent upon maintaining the
silver standard. So, instead of following the example of the United
States and making silver coins of light weight and of limited legal
tender, it recommended that an export duty be put on silver, that
bullion brokers be prosecuted, and that assorting and trading in coins
be prohibited by law. In other words, this sapient commission went
back for inspiration to the times of Louis XIV. and of James I. and
Charles I. of England. Some attempts were actually made to carry out
these senseless recommendations, but they were soon abandoned. It was
about this time that Chevalier, the French economist, who was a stout
champion of the silver standard, proposed to solve the difficulty by
providing that French gold coins should have a fixed weight, but a
variable value, and that the value should be announced by legislative
decree at certain short intervals. M. Levasseur, another economist of
renown, but with a keener vision, expressed the opinion that gold had
made itself the standard in spite of the law, and he suggested that the
wisest thing for France to do was to make the law conform to the fact.


                       THE LATIN MONETARY UNION.

Nothing was done at that time. Events drifted till 1864, when the lack
of small change had become so serious that the Government brought
a bill before the Corps Legislatif authorizing the lowering of the
fineness of all the silver coins less than five francs to 835 instead
of 900 thousandths. This was in effect the same thing that we had
done in 1853, when we converted all our silver coins less than one
dollar into token money. The proposal was more shocking to the French
legislator than to the American, for the reason that the franc was the
monetary unit sanctioned by the law of 1803, and this monetary unit was
one of the very things to be lowered. The Legislature recoiled, but
it sustained the lowering of the pieces smaller than one franc. The
difficulty could not be removed by such homœopathic treatment, and as
the same difficulty existed in the neighboring countries of Belgium
and Switzerland, a convention was called for the purpose of adopting
some common steps for relief. Italy also was induced to join, and soon
afterwards Greece. France considered it admissible to do by treaty what
she had not been willing to do by direct act. By treaty dated December
23, 1865, these four countries adopted their present token coinage of
silver and limited its legal-tender faculty to fifty francs. This was
the origin of the so-called Latin Monetary Union.


                 HOW FRANCE CAME TO THE GOLD STANDARD.

In 1867 the price of silver had again declined, so that the French
ratio of 15½ was substantially identical with the market ratio. That
was the year of the International Monetary Conference, of which mention
has already been made, at which France voted in favor of the single
gold standard. Nevertheless, the French legislators abandoned the
silver standard with extreme reluctance. They were attached to it by
custom and tradition. They still desired, like their ancestors of the
Revolution, to have the silver standard with gold as a subordinate
metal. They allowed events to drift until 1873, when they were startled
to find that 154,000,000 francs’ worth of silver had been deposited at
the mint for coinage in that year, against only 5,000,000 francs’ worth
in 1871–2. The amount of silver so deposited was more than the mint
could coin in a year and a half, if it did nothing else. The market
ratio of gold had risen nearly to 15.75. There was a profit of 1½ per
cent. in sending silver bullion to the mint and using the resulting
coin to buy gold for export. The delegates of the Latin Monetary Union
were hastily assembled and they determined to limit the coinage of
silver to 120,000,000 francs per year for all the countries concerned.
This was virtually the adoption of the gold standard.

At the beginning of 1876 the market ratio had reached nearly seventeen
to one. The crisis was becoming acute. Switzerland had ceased to coin
her allotted share of silver. Belgium had passed a law authorizing
the Government to stop coining that metal. M. Leon Say, the French
Minister of Finance, sent to the Senate March 21, 1876, a bill of only
two lines, in these words, viz.: “The coinage of silver five-franc
pieces may be limited or suspended by decree.” The Senate Committee to
which it was referred, under the lead of M. de Parieu, reported a more
drastic measure absolutely forbidding the coinage of any silver money
of full legal tender. The legislative body again showed its aversion
to change by rejecting the Senate report and adopting, on the 5th of
August, the more moderate measure of the Minister of Finance. But it
really made no difference which of the two was adopted. The door of the
French mint was closed to silver on the following day, and has not been
reopened.

I think it has been shown that the gold standard made its way in France
not only without design on the part of individuals, but in spite of the
strenuous resistance of almost all the men who busied themselves with
the subject at all. I have given a good deal of space to the experience
of France, because of the great importance which has always been
assigned to that country by the advocates of bimetallism.


                   EXPERIENCE OF BELGIUM AND HOLLAND.

It is unnecessary to go into details concerning the other members of
the Latin Union, but one fact as regards Belgium deserves notice. This
country was an integral part of France when the law of 1803 was passed.
Her monetary system was accordingly identical with that of France
until 1832, when she adopted the single silver standard retaining the
franc as the monetary unit. In 1861, when the great influx of gold
from California and Australia had made such a change in the monetary
conditions of France, the people of Belgium began to taste the luxury
of gold in the form of French coins. There was straightway a popular
demand that French gold should be made legal tender in Belgium. The
Finance Minister, Frère Orban, resisted it. He was impressed with the
views of Chevalier in favor of silver, to which allusion has already
been made. The popular demand grew apace, and Frère Orban, rather than
yield to it, resigned his office. Then the bill was passed, and Belgium
obtained what her people wanted, that is, the gold standard.

The experience of Holland is no less instructive. Prior to 1847 this
country had the double standard at the ratio of 15.60 to 1. She had
become convinced, however, that a double standard was merely an
alternate standard, first one thing and then the other. So she decided
to have a single standard, and adopted that of silver in 1847.

When Germany adopted the gold standard a commission was appointed
by the King of the Netherlands to examine the monetary question. It
recommended that the coinage of silver be suspended for six months, and
a bill to that effect was passed in May, 1873. This law was renewed
twice for periods of six months each. A second report of the Commission
was made, recommending a bill for the adoption of the single gold
standard, but this bill was rejected by the second Chamber in March,
1874. When the law suspending the coinage of silver expired in May,
1874, immense quantities of silver began to flow to the mint. Silver
florins passed in trade at the old ratio of 15.60 because they were
limited in quantity, but it was obvious that they would soon fall to
the bullion value of silver. So in December, 1874, a new six-months’
suspension of coinage was ordered by the legislative body--the same one
that had refused to adopt the single gold standard. Before this period
had elapsed the Minister of Finance proposed that the silver coinage be
discontinued indefinitely and that gold coinage be allowed. This bill
was passed in June, 1875. Here again the gold standard made its way
over the heads of the wise men of the time.


                     THE GOLD STANDARD IN AUSTRIA.

The adoption of the gold standard by Austria is now in progress, and
there is every assurance that it will be carried into effect. That
country had had the single silver standard since 1857, but was under
a suspension of specie payments. When it was ascertained in 1879
that the decline in silver was likely to be permanent the Government
gave orders to the mints in both Austria and Hungary to receive no
more of that metal from private individuals for coinage. The effect
of this order was to make Government paper money the standard, and
this paper varied from day to day in comparison with gold, as did our
greenbacks before we resumed specie payments. Some silver was coined on
Government account, but as a matter of fact that metal was discarded as
a standard by the refusal to coin for private persons. Austria had a
gold coinage, indeed, but the gold was commercial money only. It had no
legal-tender faculty, but passed at its quoted value from day to day.
Since 1879 the problem of finance in Austria has been two-fold, namely,
to resume specie payments (which must, under the circumstances, be
gold payments), and to fix a ratio at which all paper money and paper
obligations should be redeemable. The ratio decided upon was that of
119 paper to 100 gold, that being the average ratio prevailing in the
market during the thirteen years from 1879 to 1892.

As the question of standard was really settled by Austria in 1879, when
she closed her mints to silver, we are concerned to know how she came
to take that step. The report of the special commission of the upper
house on this subject, submitted last year, says that it had become
clear as long ago as the decade 1860–1870, when Europe was becoming
saturated with gold, that this was the only metal fitted to be the
standard of nations of advanced civilization. “Gold was dominant and
the standard of value,” says this report, “in all trade on a great
scale as early as the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, even though
silver was then the standard in all domestic exchanges. * * * _In
every age there is some metal dominant in the industry of the world
which forces its way with elemental strength in the face of any public
regulation, and in our day gold is that metal._”

This is as good a statement as can be made of the reasons why not
only Austria but all the other nations whose action we have examined,
including the United States, have adopted the single gold standard.
While Austria has been collecting her supply of the yellow metal we
have heard a great deal about the “scramble for gold.” Why is there a
scramble for gold? Merely because gold is universally acceptable. All
civilized people are willing to exchange their property for it to any
extent, and this is the only thing they are willing to accept in that
way without limit or reserve. That is a good and sufficient reason why
there is a scramble for gold and why there is no similar scramble for
silver.


                          A NATURAL EVOLUTION.

If we find a movement of civilized mankind going on steadily for a
hundred years, working out in different countries uniform results which
commend themselves to successive generations, the presumptions are all
in favor of that movement being beneficial. At all events, the burden
of proof is upon those who think differently. I am so well convinced of
the benefits of the single gold standard that if all power were placed
in my hands I would not introduce anything different from it. I should
consider it presumptuous to attempt to interfere with an obviously
natural evolution in human affairs. I should know, moreover, that such
an attempt would be futile, because the first step to be taken would
be to alter the preferences and likings of individual men. Society
consists of aggregations of individuals, who in their private business
prefer one ounce of gold to sixteen ounces of silver, or twenty-five
ounces, as the case may be. Unless I can change this preference and
liking I cannot alter the monetary standard of Christendom. It is this
preference which paralyzes all the international monetary conferences.
The secret thought of the delegates in the Brussels Conference was
something like this: “What would happen the day after international
bimetallism if the commercial classes should continue to prefer one
ounce of gold to sixteen ounces of silver?” Any responsible minister of
finance must recoil before that query.

I think that the “scramble for gold” would be worse the day after
the bimetallic treaty than it was the day before, because everybody
would suspect everybody else of gratifying his secret desire for
gold at the expense of his neighbors. It should be remarked that
the Brussels Conference, as a body, never touched the question of
bimetallism, although some of the members improved the opportunity to
make speeches on that subject. The Conference went to pieces on a minor
question--that of buying a little more silver. The proposal was that
the nations should purchase a certain amount of an article that none
of them wanted. When the representatives of France and the Latin Union
had the intrepidity to say that they would not recommend that policy
to their governments, even if it should be adopted, the bottom dropped
out of the Conference altogether. Although Mr. Bland has given his
attention to this matter as a humorist, in a magazine article, I think
that he has come short of exhausting the subject.


                           NO STEPS BACKWARD.

If the successive steps that we have described, whereby the nations
have arrived one by one at the single gold standard, had been the
result of a hundred years’ conspiracy against the “debtor class,”
instead of being a natural evolution beneficial to all classes, I
should still be unable to see any advantage in changing back. Whatever
mischief appertains to this evolution has been done and now belongs to
the remote past. Those books are closed. To retrace the steps would
merely double the wrong, inflicting it upon a new lot. Those who,
according to the hypothesis, suffered in the past are mostly dead. If
there be any such victims living in France or Germany, in Holland or
Belgium, or Scandinavia, they are very slow in disclosing themselves to
the various international conferences held for their benefit. They are
very backward in coming forward.

What is meant by “debtor class” in this discussion? All men who are not
bankrupt are both creditors and debtors. The fact that they are not
bankrupt implies that they have more due to them in one way and another
than they owe. I am proud to believe that the vast majority of my
countrymen are of this class, _i. e._, of the creditor class. I take it
that we are not legislating specially for bankrupts. Certainly it would
not be wise to change our standard of value for their accommodation.
Such a change would produce a great many new bankrupts and would not
save any old ones.

What our country needs is more capital. This is especially true of
the West and South. There is a great deal of foreign capital that
would like to come here, but is deterred by apprehensions of a change
in the standard of value. This is not conjecture on my part, but
actual knowledge. I do not think there will be a change of standard.
I believe in the persistence of gold both here and in Europe, but
the belief is very strong in Europe that we shall slip off the gold
standard, if we do not go off intentionally. Consequently they keep
their money at home or invest it here only on call, and they withdraw
it in cases where they can do so without loss. This rule operates with
our own capitalists more or less. If money is tight, it is because
credit is paralyzed. Lenders are afraid lest the continued operation
of the Silver Law should bring about a change of the standard, so that
they would get back less than they have put out. While this state of
mind continues, it is immaterial, so far as borrowers are concerned,
whether the amount of cash in the country is large or small.

We are told that there is not gold enough in the world to do the
business of the world. I have been hearing this for seventeen years.
How do you know that there is not enough? If there was not enough
seventeen years ago, there may be enough now, seeing that there has
been an addition to it of $1,500,000,000 during that interval, after
making a liberal deduction for the amount used in the arts. The old
stock does not disappear with use. I have a gold coin of the reign of
Philip of Macedon, on which the name and face of that monarch are so
well preserved as to possess artistic as well as archæological value.
There is no ascertainable relation between the amount of gold in the
world and the amount of business done or to be done. The function of
gold as a standard of value is increasing while its function as a form
of currency is diminishing. The time is surely coming when its currency
function in civilized countries will be limited to international
payments and to the wants of travelers. That time has already been
reached in the greater part of the United States and Canada.


                        ALLEGED FALL OF PRICES.

We are told that the single gold standard has caused a disastrous fall
in the prices of commodities; also that it has put an unjust burden
upon those who have borrowed money on mortgage. I have seen no proof
that the adoption of the gold standard by Europe and the United States
has caused a decline in prices of commodities, nor can I admit that
such a decline would be a bad thing. None of us, when we go to market,
complain that prices of food, fuel, clothing, etc., are too low. Mr.
David A. Wells has written a book entitled “Recent Economic Changes,”
which accounts for the fall in price of all staple articles of commerce
which really have fallen during the past twenty years, accounts for it
by the increased facilities for producing and transporting the same. He
has not grouped them all together, as our bimetallist friends commonly
do, but has taken each one separately. I commend his example in this
particular to their imitation.

As to mortgage debts, I have learned by inquiry of the leading mortgage
companies in New York that farm mortgages are generally made for the
term of five years, and that about 25 per cent. of them are paid at
or before maturity. Consequently, any wrong which mortgagors are now
suffering, in consequence of the gold standard, must have accrued
since 1888. To redress their supposed wrongs we are asked to turn the
whole business of the country upside down and change the rating of
all other contracts perhaps 35 per cent. But the average duration of
mortgages is considerably less than five years. The Topeka _Capitol_
newspaper a year or two ago made a special investigation of the records
of a number of agricultural counties in Kansas, and found that more
mortgages were paid off than were put on within the period covered by
the investigation. Hence the presumption is that the average life of
the farm mortgage in Kansas is not more than two and one-half years. I
am aware that many mortgages are allowed to run for indefinite periods
after they fall due, but these, after they fall due, are call loans
on real estate security. I am not aware that borrowers on call are
complaining of the gold standard. At all events, if they are oppressed
by reason of that standard they can relieve themselves at any time by
paying up. If they do not pay and are solvent, it must be because
they find it to their advantage to endure these so-called oppressions
a while longer. It is safe to say that all these mortgages would be
called in on the first sign of a change in the monetary standard. The
tightness of money in such an event may be imagined, but can hardly be
described.


                            NATIONAL DEBTS.

It is insisted that national and State debts are enhanced by the
prevalence of the single gold standard. To prove this we are asked to
compare the low prices of the present day with prices of past times.
Does not that prove that the bondholder gets more value now than he
bargained for, and hence that the taxpayer pays more?

No, it does not. Bondholders are entitled to share with others the
advantages of low prices of manufactured goods resulting from new
inventions and facilities for production and transportation. As to
products of the farm, prices were much lower when I was a boy than
they are now. Eggs sold then for 4 cents per dozen, butter for 6 to 8
cents per pound, corn for 15 cents per bushel, wood for $1 per cord,
etc., etc. If the gold standard has had any lowering effect on prices
it has not touched these articles. But why should we shed tears over
national and State debts, seeing that ours are nearly all paid? Let the
crocodiles of Europe weep over the enhanced burden of national debts if
there be any such enhancement due to the gold standard, which I take
leave to deny.

Suppose it were true that national and State debts were enhanced in
the manner alleged, would that be a reason for changing the standard
of value for the countless daily transactions of business? The bank
clearings of seventy-nine cities in the United States for the week
ending May 20 amounted to $1,165,478,664, which is about double the
interest-bearing debt of the nation. Add to this the payments of wages
and the retail transactions that are not embraced in clearing-house
returns, and then multiply the whole by the fifty-two weeks of the year
and you will see how large a cannon you are loading to kill a mosquito
and what a tremendous recoil it must have.




              A FEW WORDS MORE ON THE COINAGE ACT OF 1873.

               FROM THE N. Y. EVENING POST, JULY 3, 1893.


A correspondent for whom we have a good deal of respect writes to
us to remonstrate once more against the Silver-Demonetizing Act of
1873. “Just as soon as it was discovered,” says this writer, “that
bimetallism was abolished, and before silver had fallen in price, Mr.
Bland, the humorist, as Mr. White is pleased to call him, attempted
to restore to the people a right that had been unwittingly taken
from them.” The record shows that neither Mr. Bland nor anybody
else attempted to remonetize silver until after it had fallen in
price more than 5d. per ounce. When the Act of 1873 was passed, the
London quotation for silver was 59¾d. When Mr. Bland introduced his
bill (November, 1877), the quotation was 54½d. But that is not very
important now.

The assumption that “the people” had “a right” which was “unwittingly”
taken from them embraces a congeries of errors which need to be
exposed--all the more because they are honestly entertained. In the
first place, who are “the people” who had a right that was unwittingly
taken from them? Of course, they were the people of the United States.
How do we know what the people of the United States want at any
particular period? By their action in Congress. There is no other way
by which their wants can be ascertained. Now, what do we find as to
this Act of 1873 demonetizing silver? It was passed by a Congress which
was the sole organ of the people as to such matters--passed by a vote
unanimous in one branch and nearly unanimous in the other.

“But _we_ did not understand it,” says somebody who was not a member
of Congress. It was not necessary that you should understand it. This
would be a queer country if it were necessary that all the people
should understand all the laws before they are passed. Neither the
Constitution nor common sense required that you should understand it.
But neither did they forbid your understanding it if you had wanted
to. Your understanding it would not have given it greater validity or
higher equity. Your not understanding it took nothing from its validity
or its equity. The frame of government under which you live prescribed
that your representative in Congress should act for you. It did not
even require that _he_ should understand it, but as a matter of fact he
did understand it, because it was explained to him by public officers
and also in public debate.

If we could get an impartial jury from another country or another
planet to try this question, that jury would be bound to decide that
“the people” passed that Act of 1873 in its entirety, in the only way
they ever pass an act applicable to the whole Union. The impartial
jury would probably add that since the people had had twenty years in
which to remonetize silver, and had not done so, but on the contrary
had voted down propositions of that kind _four times_ in the popular
branch of Congress, the evidence was conclusive that they were _not_
misrepresented by the Congress which passed the Act of 1873. They voted
down the remonetization of silver on the 21st of February, 1878, when
they substituted the Allison Bill for the Bland Bill by yeas 203, nays
72. They voted it down on the 8th of April, 1886, on Mr. Bland’s direct
motion for the free coinage of silver, yeas 126, nays 163. They voted
it down on the 19th of June, 1890, on a motion to concur in the Senate
free-coinage bill, yeas 135, nays 152. They practically voted it down
on the 24th of March, 1892, by voting against a parliamentary motion
made by Mr. Bland. The majority against Mr. Bland was only two votes in
this case--150 to 148--but it was sufficient for the purpose.

But we are told that “a right” was taken away from the people when
the Act of 1873 was passed, and the implication is that they have
been vainly struggling to recover this right for twenty years--a very
odd situation indeed for a country where the people can pass any law
that they really want. It is the fault of some writers that they use
important words without explaining, perhaps without knowing, their
meaning. What is this “right” of which the people were deprived by the
Act of 1873? Rights may be legal, or moral, or religious. In which
category does this right fall? If it was a legal right, it was founded
upon a law which Congress had the same right to repeal as to enact. It
is not even affirmed that this was a valuable right, although that is
implied. A man may have a legal right to two wives, but it may be an
injury to him. He may have a legal right to get drunk, but that can
hardly be considered valuable.

Was this right of coinage, of which the people were deprived, a moral
right? Moral rights are matters of opinion and of dispute, but it
may be affirmed with confidence that the existence of a moral right
of coinage, in the sense here implied, has never been affirmed or
imagined in any country or age since the world began. In the early
history of California coins were manufactured by private parties and
put in circulation, to pass for what they were worth, and this has been
done in various parts of the world at various times. Such coins had
no legal-tender property. They were small ingots which anybody could
accept or refuse, according to his liking. The contention here is that
a moral right exists for private persons to make 412½ grains of silver
legal tender for a dollar in the absence of any law to that effect and
in the teeth of any law which forbids it. This is really too absurd
for discussion--as absurd as it would be to claim this as a religious
right. We may add that if this is a moral right, it belongs to all
mankind, seeing that they have all had silver money at one time or
another. It is surprising that so few recognize it as a right or set up
any claim to it.

Finally we are told that this right had been taken from the people
“unwittingly.” We repeat that ours would be a very queer country if
no law could be passed till everybody understood it. There has been a
great deal of talk in the newspapers lately about an act of Congress
regulating the seal fisheries in Alaska. How many people knew what that
bill was before it was passed? How many know what it is now? Even the
lawyers who are discussing it before the Paris Tribunal do not agree
in their understanding of it. Science has not yet devised any means to
compel people to know what is going on in Congress. The difficulties
of forcing such knowledge upon ten or twelve millions of voters, large
numbers of whom do not speak English or read and write any language,
and still larger numbers of whom know nothing of finance, and never
could by any possibility learn anything of it, are simply appalling.

Even in the case of those who make some pretensions to scientific
attainment an attempt to make them understand the bills before Congress
would be quite herculean. Suppose that our correspondent and the writer
of this article were brought to the bar of the House and asked whether
they understood the pending measure, so that it might not be passed
“unwittingly” as to themselves, and suppose they should apply in the
affirmative, what guarantee would Congress have that they really did
understand it? They might think that they understood it when they did
not. Something of this kind actually happened in connection with the
Coinage Act of 1873. The Hon. William D. Kelley of Pennsylvania took
part in the debate on the clause dropping the silver dollar from the
list of coins, and defended that clause on the ground that the silver
dollar was worth two cents more than the gold dollar, and that it was
impossible to have two dollars of different values. He afterwards said
that he did not understand this particular part of the bill.

What happened in Mr. Kelley’s case would be still more likely to
happen in the case of talesmen hastily summoned from the body of the
people as assistant Congressmen. Our forefathers, anticipating all the
difficulties attendant upon the endeavor to force all the people to
understand all the bills before Congress at all stages, wisely provided
that such antecedent knowledge should be dispensed with, but they took
steps to give facilities for such knowledge. If it is a defect of our
system that laws are passed “unwittingly,” it is a defect which we
share with all other governments, and it seems to us to be inherent in
the representative system. At all events, we see no present cure for it.

It thus appears that our correspondent, for whom, as we have said, we
entertain much respect, has, in a single sentence, used three phrases,
all of them important, and carrying with them the gist of the debate
on a momentous question, without any clear idea of their meaning. He
has used the word “people” as though it were an entity separate and
distinct from the only organ established for the expression of its
will, but he has not told us where we can find this entity or how we
can interrogate it. He affirms that the people have been deprived of
a “right” without telling us whether it is a legal or a moral right,
or how it came to exist, or what portion of the civilized world regard
it as a right, or how we are to know that it is a right, or anything
about it. He has affirmed that the people were deprived of this
right “unwittingly,” implying that no law ought to be passed until
all the people understand it. (It is not necessary, according to the
hypothesis, that they should approve it, but only that they should
understand it.) In using these phrases in this way he has “begged
the question” completely, but we presume that he was not aware that
he was doing so. We have taken some pains to point out his unfounded
assumptions because we know that he represents a good many people who,
like himself, are honestly in error.




                           Transcriber’s Note


Some inconsistencies in spelling, hyphenation, and punctuation have
been retained.

This file uses _underscores_ to indicate italic text. Small capitals
changed to all capitals.

p. 9: changed as-printed “15 1-7” to “15⅐”, based on context.

